EPEs and EinsteinPy Governance
------------------------------

Author: Shreyas Bapat 

date-created: 2020 February 02 

date-last-revised: 2020 February 17 

date-accepted: 2020 February 17 

type: Governance

status: Accepted


Abstract
--------

EPE stands for EinsteinPy Proposal for Enhancement. An EPE is actually a design document 
providing important information, details and governance models to the EinsteinPy community, 
or describing a new feature for EinsteinPy or its affiliated packages. 
The EPE should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature.
If the EPE is intended to be regarding a governance specific model, a member meeting should be organised and
the EPE must get atleast 51% votes to pass.

We intend EPEs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing major new features, for collecting community 
input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Python. The EPE author 
is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.
The EPE author is obligated to write a formal email to all@einsteinpy.org for a community meeting. 

Because the EPEs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository (indirectly since this 
wiki is versioned within github), their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal

The EPE is the beginning of formalism in the future major changes in EinsteinPy. This EPE 
is meant for understanding what EinsteinPy Enhancement Proposals are, what function they 
serve, and how they can be implemented.


Detailed description
--------------------

As the governance of the project was mostly based on verbal communications untill now, 
which might not be very much possile in the future. 

There are four kinds of EPE:

* A "Standard Track" EPE describes a new feature or implementation for
  EinsteinPy. It may also describe an interoperability standard that will be
  supported  in current EinsteinPy versions before a subsequent EPE adds the
  feature in the future.

* An "Informational" EPE describes an EinsteinPy design issue, or provides general
  guidelines or information to the Python community, but does not propose a new
  feature. Informational EPEs do not necessarily represent an EinsteinPy community
  consensus or recommendation, so users and implementers are free to ignore
  Informational EPEs or follow their advice. 

* A "Process" EPE describes a process surrounding EinsteinPy, or proposes a change
  to (or an event in) a process. Process EPEs are like Standard Track EPEs but
  apply to areas other than the EinsteinPy package itself. 

* A "Governance" EPE describes the democratic method of bringing changes to the 
  EinsteinPy package and has discussions related to the powers of the individuals.
  Changes to the Coordination Committee and Board Members can be made using these EPEs only.

Submitting an EPE
.................

The EPE process begins with a new idea for EinsteinPy. It is highly recommended
that a single EPE contain a single key proposal or new idea. Small
enhancements or patches often don't need a EPE and can be injected into the
EinsteinPy development workflow with a patch submission to the EinsteinPy issue
tracker. The more focused the EPE, the more successful it tends to be. If in
doubt, split your EPE into several well-focused ones.

Each EPE must have a champion -- someone who writes the EPE using the style
and format described below, shepherds the discussions in the appropriate
forums, and attempts to build community consensus around the idea. The EPE
champion (a.k.a. Author) should first attempt to ascertain whether the idea is
EPE-able. Posting to the einsteinpy-dev mailing list is the best way to go about
doing this.

Following a discussion on einsteinpy-dev, the proposal should be submitted as a
Pull Request to EinsteinPy-EPEs with the name EPE<n>.rst where <n> is an
appropriately assigned number (5 digits). The draft must use the EPEtemplate.rst file.
That a formal proposal has been submitted as a PR should be announced to the
einsteimpy-dev list.

The EPE author may update the EPE as needed.

Standard Track EPEs consist of two parts, a design document and a reference
implementation. It is generally recommended that at least a prototype
implementation be co-developed with the EPE, as ideas that sound good in
principle sometimes turn out to be impractical when subjected to the test of
implementation. This is not required when too onerous, but some indication of
implementation practicality is highly recommended by actual code. The best way
to provide that code is via a github pull request either to the
`einsteinpy/einsteinpy <https://github.com/einsteinpy/einsteinpy>`_ repository, or
`einsteinpy/amr <https://github.com/einsteinpy/amr>`_, as
appropriate.

EPE Review
..........

Normally EPEs are discussed on einsteimpy-dev or on member community call and perhaps in other forums.
Sometimes EPEs will grow out of an existing pull request, but it's better to
have any discussion after the EPE is generated on the list, as it has a wider
audience. The final decision on any EPE is made by the coordinating committee,
though usually a consensus in the development is sufficient (but in unusual
cases may be overridden by the coordinating committee). The decision may
require changes to the EPE and any implementation. Final acceptance is not
done until the required changes are made to the EPE and implementation.

EPE Status
..........

An EPE's status can

* "Discussion": New EPE pull requests should always start in this status.  This
  means the EPE is currently being considered and a decision has not been made
  regarding what should be done.

* "Accepted": If an EPE is accepted, it will be merged - either the original
  author can do this if they wish to fill in the "decision rationale" section,
  or the coordination committee member who merges it can change the status and
  write the rationale.  Regardless, if the EPE is an informational or process
  EPE, it is now done. If it is standard track, this status means it is in the
  process of being implemented.

* "Implemented": Only valid for a Standard Track EPE.  This means the feature
  discussed in the EPE is complete and has been fully merged into the main
  EinsteinPy repository.

* "Rejected": If it is decided that an EPE should be rejected, the person
  who merges it should change its status to "Rejected."  The "decision
  rationale" should also be filled in, either by the merger, the original
  author, or another community member who voiced objections to the EPE.
  The goal is to try to reflect the overall community opinion in these
  rationales, so that new community members can understand why a decision was
  made.

This EPE also puts forward all the community positions. Formation of Coordination
Committee and Board is facilitated through this EPE. 

EinsteinPy EPEs are inspired by AstroPy APEs.

Branches and pull requests (If applicable)
------------------------------------------

N/A


Implementation
--------------

Creation of EinsteinPy Board. For important decsions regarding the project and 
to handle the EinsteinPy Coordination Committee. 

EinsteinPy Board 
................

**Lead Developer** : Shreyas Bapat, Ritwik Saha

**Deputy Lead Developer** : Bhavya Bhatt, Priyanshu Khandelwal


The coordination committe is responsible for various things that happen inside the project.
Every role has some dedication expected from it. 

Coordination Committee
......................

**Continuous Integration Maintainer** :  Shreyas Bapat

**Deputy Continuous Integration Maintainer** :  Unfilled 

**Release Manager** : Shreyas Bapat

**Deputy Release Manager** : Unfilled

**Webmaster** : Unfilled

**Deputy Webmaster** : Unfilled 

**Subpackage Maintainers** : 

**Lead Newcomer** : 

**GSoC Admin** : Shreyas Bapat

**SOCIS Admin** : Ritwik Saha 

**Communication and Education Lead** : Sofía Ortin Vela 

**Deputy Communication and Education Lead** : Unfilled

**Blog Manager** : Unfilled

**Deputy Blog Manager** : Unfilled

All this must be published on the einsteinpy.org website. 

Backward compatibility
----------------------

N/A


Alternatives
------------

TBD

Decision rationale
------------------

The Coordination Committee had a discussion over a Google Meets Call and decided to move forward with it. The EPE is inspired by Astropy APE.
